---
id: 81183eb8-e34d-4588-aff1-bd8592e91791
title: Zek
desc: ''
updated: 1603527561862
created: 1603527561862
data: {}
fname: games.destiny.gamerdungeon.lore.zek
stub: false
parent: aac395c2-48dc-4c24-afb8-310bb7757e54
children: []
hpath: games.destiny.gamerdungeon.lore.zek
---
\++ The Archives of TÝ-ùüñ ++
Codex Entry : §585--1874§
Title : [ERR-7634]...Zek Tras Resnaz
Content:

```
Knowledge, absolutely sure of its infallibility, is faith
```

Warlocks are the scholars of our world. They spend great many ages pursuing the knowledge that makes them whole. Zek Tras Resnaz was one such warlock, and her poison was the infamous black armoury papers. To Zek they meant more than just knowledge, she thought it was meant to lead the way to the most powerful weapons in the universe.. to protect humanity. To her this meant the tireless pursuit of using the great forges of old to forge weapon after weapon in order to find the perfect weapon with which she could protect herself. Just like any other warlock, she was had contempt for the titans and the hunters around her. Titans those buffoons who only care about punching things and those hunters who just didn't care about any higher purpose other than themselves. She always wondered why did Ikora even listen to Zavala, he was not fit to be the leader of the vanguard, the man didn't even know anything about the history of the golden age or even talked to Ada-1.
...
[ERR-7634]
...
Siviks was her nemesis as he was the one who used the great forge of Gofannon and tainted it. This was heresy and Siviks and his Kell's Scourge would have to pay the price. She knew that he was here on earth, and had defiled the greatest vault of the black armory and stole its content. She quickly guided here fireteam of lesser gaurdians to the vault, but she was too late. Sivik's had mocked her again and fled.. however this made her resolve absolute, **Siviks Must Die, I shall be the bane of Kells Scourge**
...
[ERR-7634][ERR-9532]
[ERR-0001]
.... Aborting archive reconstruction.. too many errors to continue grammar reconstruction.
